# 80. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II

- Difficulty: Medium
- Topics: `Array`, `Two Pointers` 
- Link: https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array-ii/

## Description

Given a sorted array nums, remove the duplicates in-place such that duplicates appeared at most twice and return the new length.

Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by modifying the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

Example 1:

Given nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3],

Your function should return length = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 1, 1, 2, 2 and 3 respectively.

It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length.

Example 2:

Given nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3],

Your function should return length = 7, with the first seven elements of nums being modified to 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 and 3 respectively.

It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.

Clarification:

Confused why the returned value is an integer but your answer is an array?

Note that the input array is passed in by reference, which means modification to the input array will be known to the caller as well.

Internally you can think of this:

// nums is passed in by reference. (i.e., without making a copy)
int len = removeDuplicates(nums);

// any modification to nums in your function would be known by the caller.
// using the length returned by your function, it prints the first len elements.
for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    print(nums[i]);
}


## Solution

### Two Pointers

续 [26. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array](26.%20Remove%20Duplicates%20from%20Sorted%20Array.md) 的双指针方法，分为快慢两指针。快指针遍历向量，慢指针替换更改元素。不同之处在于该题允许相同元素出现两次，因此我通过维护一个 `is_repeat` 变量来实现元素重复的感知。该算法时间复杂度为 O(n)，空间复杂度为 O(1)，运行时间为 12ms，超过 98.49% 的 C++ 提交。

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int removeDuplicates(vector<int>& nums) {
        if (nums.size() == 0) return 0;
        else if (nums.size() == 1) return 1;
        auto ret = nums.begin()+1;
        bool is_repeat = false;
        
        for (auto it = nums.begin()+1; it != nums.end() && ret != nums.end(); it++) {
            if (*it == *(it-1)) {
                if (!is_repeat) {
                    *ret = *it;
                    ret++;
                    is_repeat = true;
                } else {
                    continue;
                }
            } else {
                *ret = *it;
                ret++;
                is_repeat = false;
            }
        }
        
        return ret-nums.begin();
    }
};
```
